In the Super Smash Bros. series, an edge (also known as a ledge, coded internally as cliff) is any part of a stage from which one can grab or tether (not to be confused with a wall grapple). Edges are often found at the ends of a stage's main platform. The edge therefore becomes an important element in the battle between an edge-guarder and a recovering opponent. Some stages can have many edges or none at all; on most tournament legal stages, there is an edge on both ends of the stage (e.g. Final Destination).
The majority of edges on hard and semisoft platforms can be grabbed. Some edges cannot be grabbed, and so make recovery from that side of the stage significantly more difficult. Examples of ungrabbable edges include the moving platform of Peach's Castle (in Smash 64 only), the lower sides of Summit, and all Stage Builder blocks aside from the standard one (and even then, only if the edge is at least two blocks above a floor). Generally, soft platforms do not have grabbable edges, the main exception being those on Norfair.
In the original Super Smash Bros. and in Super Smash Bros. Melee, a character cannot grab the edge if facing the opposite direction, with some exceptions, such as when using Falcon Dive and Spinning Kong in Melee. In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Super Smash Bros. 4, and Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, characters can grab an edge behind them, but with a range of 40% less than in front. Characters will automatically grab a nearby edge while in the air unless the player is actively holding down on the control stick or D-pad. Multiple characters cannot hold onto an edge at the same time, with the exception of the Ice Climbers in Brawl and Ultimate, where both climbers belonging to one player can grab the same edge.
When a character grabs an edge, they will briefly become intangible. The amount of intangibility gained depends on the game and if certain conditions are met. In Melee and Brawl, if a character lets go of the ledge, they will keep their intangibility. This is the basis of ledgestalling (see that article for more detailed analysis of how edge-grabbing works in Melee). This ledge intangibility could also be carried over with regular ledge options. If the intangibility of a ledge option ends but the player still has carried over ledge intangibility, they will stay intangible until the ledge intangibility ends. This is mainly relevant with ledge attacks and ledge jumps, allowing players to stay intangible for a longer period of time if they ledge attack/jump as early as possible after grabbing an edge. However, in Smash 64, Smash 4 and Ultimate, the intangibility immediately ends once a player lets go of the ledge by pressing down or back on the control stick, preventing characters from having indefinite ledge intangibility. The intangibility from ledge options also completely overrides ledge intangibility in these games.
The physics of grabbing edges have undergone a massive overhaul in Super Smash Bros. 4. In this game, air time and damage of a character affect how much intangibility is earned by grabbing the ledge; a healthy character with a high amount of air time earns more intangibility. Damage no longer affects a character's recovery animations, so they always use their fast ones. A character can also be stopped from grabbing a ledge for 55 frames if they are hit, forcing most characters to predictably delay their recovery in order to sweetspot the ledge. Finally and arguably most importantly, trying to grab an edge that another character is already grabbing will gently remove them from the edge and then grab it, removing edge-hogging, and grabbing an edge a second time without touching the ground or being hit will not grant intangibility, negating planking. Grabbing and stealing edge while someone hangs from it as well is commonly known as ledge trumping.
In Ultimate, grabbing an edge consecutively without landing or taking hitstun decreases the intangibility frames of subsequent edge recovery options, with a reduction factor of 0.8× for the second edge grab, 0.5× for the third one, and no intangibility at all from the fourth one onward. Additionally, in the same vein as Ike's Aether in previous games, characters can only grab an edge up to six times under these conditions; subsequent attempts will still show the visual effect for an edge grab if the character comes in contact, but without it actually happening. These mechanics further reduce the effectiveness of planking strategies.
