Yoshi is a green dino that is the same size as a human. Yoshi helps Mario on various quests, serving as transportation. Yoshi's are hatched from spotted eggs. Yoshi has a long, sticky tongue that he uses to eat certain objects, like enemies and fruit. Ever since his debut, Yoshi has been one of the major characters in the games. Yoshi is omnivorous, meaning he can eat both plant-like items and meat, but seem to enjoy tropical fruits the most, as displayed in Yoshi's Story and Super Mario Sunshine. Yoshi's nose can detect fruit and other secrets buried underground. Yoshi also has teeth, but they are rarely seen or even used. The few times they are seen mostly is in Yoshi's Story and Yoshi's Island.
Yoshis are very intelligent, being able to defend themselves as infants. In sports games such as Mario Superstar Baseball and the Mario Tennis series, Yoshi is known for his speed and his tongue capability. It's safe to assume that all Yoshi have the same abilities as the main Yoshi. As seen in Yoshi Island, every Yoshi had the same main abilities, regardless of color. In later games, Yoshi can eat certain enemies to give him special abilities.
Yoshi comes in countless different colors. Those colors are green, red, yellow, blue, pink, light blue, purple, black, white, orange, and brown which was only in Yoshi's Island.
Yoshi is able to lay an egg that has the same color spots as his color is. For example, if a Blue Yoshi lays an egg, the spots on the egg will be blue, just like the Yoshi that laid it.
In games such as the Super Smash Bros. series, different colors of Yoshi appear. There are seven colors in total, one being purple in the first game. The Purple Yoshi has returned in Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U.
In Super Mario Sunshine, Yoshi can be either orange, purple or pink, depending on the fruit he eats. He will also turn green if he isn't fed fruit once his juice meter runs out. Oddly, Yoshi can't swim in this game.
As shown in Super Mario World, Yoshi can do different things when he eats a shell as long it stays in his mouth. It stays in his mouth until he swallows it.
Appearances
Yoshi first appeared in the games in Super Mario World in 1990 on the Super Nintendo Entertainment System. In Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars, Yoshi had a rival in the form of a bad-tempered, sunglasses-wearing blue creature named Boshi. Yoshi also made an appearance in all of the Super Smash Brothers games. Yoshi made other appearances such as, Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, Yoshi's Safari, Yoshi's Story, Yoshi's Island DS, Yoshi's Cookie, Yoshi's Island: Super Mario Advance 3, Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Super Mario 64, Super Mario Sunshine, Mario & Luigi: Superstar Saga, Paper Mario: The Thousand-Year Door, Super Mario 64 DS, Yoshi Topsy-Turvy, Yoshi Touch & Go, Super Mario Kart, Mario Kart DS, Dino & Aliens, Mario is Missing, Mario Superstar Baseball, the Mario Tennis series, Mario & Luigi: Partners in Time, Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games, Mario Kart Wii, Super Mario Galaxy 2, and a few other games.  
Yoshi is also a playable character in Super Smash Bros for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U. Yoshi also appeared in the Super Mario World television series, voiced by Andrew Sabistion. Yoshi can be captured at the end of Super Mario Odyssey.
Yoshi's Language
Though Yoshi is in many games, he has never been heard talking in formal speech. The possible explanations for this are that he either has no voice or he can only simply make simple noises such as saying his name. There have been a few times where he actually has a speaking part. In the Super Mario World cartoon, he is given a speaking part. This is also the case with a type of Yoshi that players may ride on in Super Mario RPG: Legend of the Seven Stars. Later, he is given a speaking part in the Paper Mario series. In these games, The Yoshi species has the ability to speak. In Mario Kart Wii, Yoshi can actually talk in a squeaky voice. He can also be heard speaking in Mario Strikers Charged/Mario Smash Football.
Nintendo Land
In Nintendo Land, a game for the Wii U, there's a minigame called Yoshi Fruit Cart. In it, the player uses a Yoshi Car to pick up fruit. If they can collect speedy fruit, they also get an egg with bonus points. There are also presents, with checkpoints and coins. If the player can collect all the fruit, a door will open, leading to the next level. There's also a door with an ? on it. Entering it allows a lot of levels to be skipped. There's also Mini Fruit. This fruit is smaller than the other fruit. Plus, there is Flag Fruit. Yoshi can also eat Spicy Fruit to eat all the fruit in his direction. Finally, there's Moving Fruit. This fruit is running around and is difficult to catch. It is important to watch out for pits and bees and watch Yoshi's fuel.
Reception and Legacy
Since his debut in 1990, Yoshi has received positive reception and is considered an icon of Nintendo, as well as being one of the main mascots. Yoshi's popularity has spawned into a successful spin-off with the classic Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. His spin-off contains several main games, puzzles, platforms and sequels. Yoshi has also been shown in a myriad of merchandise such as toys, memorabilia and even Pogs.
Yoshi has been referenced and featured in many shows and films such as The Simpsons, Robot Chicken, Recess, Steven Universe, The Big Bang Theory, Ready Player One and more. Yoshi appears in the 1993 film Super Mario Bros.as a small dinosaur. He also appears in a DIC Canadian animated series based off Super Mario World in 1991. There have even been possibilities stating Yoshi will soon appear along with the other main Mario characters in the MACY'S Thanksgiving Parade.
